# MaizeBugeaterDatasets
Assembled and QCed data from the Wisconsin Diversity panel, generated by the Schnable Lab, the Thompson Lab collaborators, and alumni.

# Authors

Primary data collection occurred in the labs of Prof. James Schnable (Nebraska field sites) and Addie Thompson (Michigan field sites). Field trials were managed by Linsey Newton (Michigan field sites) and Christine Smith (Nebraska field sites). Tissue collection was managed by Jonathan Turkus (Nebraska field sites) and Linsey Newton (Michigan field sites). Phenotyping was conducted by the labs of Prof. Addie Thompson (Michigan field sites) and Prof. James Schnable and Prof. Brandi Sigmon (Nebraska field sites).

Many MANY people worked hard to generate data described in this repository including:

Alice Guo, Jon Turkus, Guangchao Sun, Ravi Mural, Ryleigh Grove, Mackenzie Zwiener, Isabel Sigmon, Hongyu Jin, Christine Smith, Nate Korth, Fangyi Li, Michael Tross, Hongyu Jin, James Schnable, Brandi Sigmon, Kyle Linders, Alliance Igiraneza,	Daniella Norah Tumusiine, Han Tran, Chenyong Miao, Isaac Stevens, Nate Pester, Leighton Wheeler, Sierra Conway, Lou Townsend, Elijah Frost, Olivier Mizero, Sam Rangira, Aleah Miller, Henry Medlock, Prince Ngiruwonsanga, Grace Carey, Clay Christenson, Thomas Hoban, Xiaoxi “Peggy” Meng, Zhikai Liang, Marcin Grzybowski, Aime Valentin

ADDIE PLEASE ADD YOUR LABS NAMES.

Where possible, more detailed attribution and credit is provided in README files throughout this repository.

# Funding Acknowledgements

The datasets generated as part of this project were supported by a FFAR award to the Schnable Lab (Award No. 602757), an ARPA-E award to the Schnable Lab (DE-AR0001367), and XXX to the Thompson lab, and an NSF award to the  Sigmon and Schnable labs (OIA-1557417)

# Publications

Portions of the data included or linked to in this repository have been described.

* Grzybowski M, Mural RV, Xu G, Turkus, J, Yang Jinliang, Schnable JC (2023) "[A common resequencing-based genetic marker dataset for global maize diversity.](https://doi.org/10.1111/tpj.16123)" The Plant Journal doi: 10.1111/tpj.16123

* Mural RV, Sun G, Grzybowski M, Tross MC, Jin H, Smith C, Newton L, Andorf CM, Woodhouse MR, Thompson AM, Sigmon B, Schnable JC (2022) “[Association mapping across a multitude of traits collected in diverse environments identifies pleiotropic loci in maize.](https://doi.org/10.1093/gigascience/giac080)” Gigascience doi: 10.1093/gigascience/giac080 bioRxiv doi: 10.1101/2022.02.25.480753

* Sun G, Mural RV, Turkus JD, Schnable JC (2021) “[Quantitative resistance loci to southern rust mapped in a temperate maize diversity panel.](https://doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-04-21-0160-R)” Phytopathology doi: doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-04-21-0160-R bioRxiv doi: 10.1101/2021.04.02.438220
